---
layout: developer-post
title:  "Building a Widget"
date:   2014-11-06 11:08:00
category: developer/widget-api
parent-order: 0
order: 1
---

Widgets are an easier and better alternative than Gadgets for creating content for your Displays. Whereas Gadgets are written in XML and require you to be familiar with a handful of proprietary tags, Widgets are simple pages written using languages that Web Developers are already familiar with – HTML, CSS and Javascript.

## Building a Widget

A Widget needs to support the Rise Widget API by:

* Loading the `http://rvashow2.appspot.com/gadgets/gadgets.min.js` Javascript file.
* Sending the *Ready* event.
* Optionally providing support for the *Play*, *Pause* and *Stop* commands, as well as the *Done* event.


### Creating the Settings Page
=============================================

Unlike a Gadget, a Widget is defined in two separate HTML files – one that defines the settings and the other that runs on a Display. To build the Widget’s settings page, you will need to add the HTML, Javascript and CSS necessary for showing the settings you want, and save it in its own HTML file.

#### Styling

The Editor shows the Widget’s settings in a full screen transparent `<iframe>`. Unless you style it, your settings will appear in the upper left-hand corner of the window and will overlap the existing text. Rise Vision provides common CSS styling that you can use as default styling for your settings page. Please visit the [common-style](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/common-style) Github repository for instructions on usage of this code in your project. Once you have made it available in your project, include the import link of the file `dist/css/rise.min.css` in your HTML page and add the following base HTML:

```
<body>
  <div class="widget">
    <div class="overlay"></div>
    <div class="settings">
      <div class="settings-center">
        <div class="wrapper container modal-content">
        	//Put the HTML for the settings here.
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```
This HTML in combination with the common styling creates a semi-transparent overlay with a horizontally and vertically centered responsive modal popup to contain your settings UI.

#### Widget Settings UI Components

The settings page will need to provide UI for configuring a users customizations of the widget and provide a way to save these settings. To coincide with our base CSS styling mentioned above, you can take advantage of some handy UI components that we provide ready for you to use in your Widget's settings page. A collection of these components can be found within the [Widget Settings UI Components](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/widget-settings-ui-components) repository on Github. The following are the most common components that you will likely make use of in a Widget's settings page:

* [Background Setting](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/background-setting): Angular directive that allows a user to format the background of a widget
* [Font Setting](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/font-setting): Angular directive that allows for font configuration (Font, Size, Color, Styling, etc)
* [Scroll Setting](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/scroll-setting): Angular directive that allows configuration of applying auto scrolling
* [UI Popover](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/ui-popover): A lightweight, extensible directive for fancy popover creation.
* [URL Field](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/url-field): Angular directive or jQuery plugin that allows a user to enter a URL and enable self-validation on the input field.
* [Widget Button Toolbar](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/widget-button-toolbar): Angular directive that provides the set of buttons required for a widget settings file.

Visit the [Rise Vision Style Guide](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components) to see the full list of UI components available and their usage information.

#### Widget Settings UI Core

A Widget's settings page requires the use of the [AngularJS](https://angularjs.org/) framework, so be sure to include a `<script>` tag in your HTML that loads the AngularJS framework:

`<script src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.2.18/angular.min.js"></script>`

Essential to the development of a Widget's settings UI is the use of our [Widget Settings UI Core](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/widget-settings-ui-core) code which contains core functionality shared across Angular-based widget settings UI. Use the `ng-controller` directive to reference `settingsController` at the top level DOM of your settings page in the `<body>` tag or one of the top `<div>` tags like so:

```
<body ng-app="mySettingsApp" ng-controller="settingsController">
```

#### Saving Settings

In order for a Widget's settings page to save the settings you will need to use the Rise Widget API, so be sure to include a `<script>` tag that loads the `gadgets.min.js` file:

`<script src="http://rvashow2.appspot.com/gadgets/gadgets.min.js"></script>`

##### Saving Made Easy

To simplify the process of saving settings we've made it easy for you with the use of our [Widget Settings UI Core](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/widget-settings-ui-core) as previously mentioned above. **Note**: This library abstracts much of the necessary functionality for saving settings so if you wish to obtain a lower level understanding of how to save settings, be sure to review the source of that repository.

A settings parameter can be of one of the following types:

* URL parameters, stored in `$scope.settings.params`
* Additional parameters, stored in `$scope.settings.additionalParams`

Each settings parameter is bound either to an input control in the scope, or in an Angular custom component (directive). You can supply a default set of settings, which will be loaded during controller's initialization phase:

```
angular.module("mySettingsApp").value("defaultSettings", {
	params: { foo: "bar" }
    additionalParams: {...}
});
```

Create a [Standard Button](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/buttons) to use as the UI for saving settings or use the [Widget Button Toolbar](http://rise-vision.github.io/style-guide/#/components/widget-button-toolbar) and call the `saveSettings()` function that is provided by the `settingsController`.

```
<widget-button-toolbar save="saveSettings()" cancel="closeSettings()">
</widget-button-toolbar>
```

### Creating the Widget
=======================

There’s really nothing special about the Widget itself other than the fact that its functionality is separate from its settings, and it needs to load `gadgets.min.js`:

`<script src="http://rvashow2.appspot.com/gadgets/gadgets.min.js"></script>`

Just as with a Gadget, a Widget should send the *Ready* event to tell the Viewer when it has finished initializing and is ready to be shown. It can also support the *Play*, *Pause* and *Stop* commands, as well as the *Done* event, although this is not strictly required.

You can view the source code for the [Google Spreadsheet Widget](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/widget-google-spreadsheet) as an example of how to construct a Widget.

## Local Preview of a Widget

Essential to the development of your own widget is the ability to develop and test it locally. In order to assist you in this process Rise Vision provides a very useful application for your desktop machine to aid in replicating how your Widget and the Widget's settings page will look and function as if it is running in the Rise Vision platform.

Visit the [Widget Preview](https://github.com/Rise-Vision/widget-preview) repository on Github for download and installation information. The application is currently available for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.

