---
layout: developer-post
title:  "Building a Multi-Page Presentation"
date:   2014-11-04 11:08:00
category: developer/presentations/multi-page
parent-order: 0
order: 3
---

Building multi-page Presentations can be tough. There are a lot of things to consider before you get it exactly right. To help, we’ve put together a template that you can use as a starting point. Click [here](http://preview.risevision.com/Viewer.html?type=presentation&id=d7bf4153-eff6-474d-a831-4a1291e8af4a) to preview the Presentation, and then choose “Copy Template” to create a copy in your Company. We’re going to step through all of the relevant code in this simple two-page Presentation, line by line.

## Generating the HTML
You’ll want to start by creating all of the Placeholders and content you’d like to show in your Presentation. In our demo, we have 3 Placeholders: one containing the RSS Gadget, one showing a Twitter feed, and one displaying the weather. We would like to show both the RSS and Twitter feeds when the Presentation starts up, and have weather on a separate page.

First, we need to put each Placeholder inside a particular "page" of the Presentation. We do this by creating empty Placeholders of the appropriate size, one per page, and giving them meaningful IDs. Then, in HTML view, we assign each one a CSS class of `page` and a `data-index` attribute that reflects its page number. (Don’t worry too much about why we are doing this; it will become clear shortly.) Also, to help reduce clutter, we remove the `placeholder` attribute so that it won’t be visible when working in Design mode. We can then move the *rss*, *twitter* and *weather* Placeholders to be nested inside the appropriate page.

Here’s what the HTML for all of this looks like:

```
<div id="home" class="page" data-index="1" style="width:100%;height:80%;left:0%;top:0%;z-index:5;position:absolute;background-color:rgb(255, 242, 204);">
  <div id="rss" placeholder="true" style="width:40%;height:70%;left:2.6042%;top:4.6296%;z-index:2;position:absolute;"></div>
  <div id="twitter" placeholder="true" style="width:40%;height:70%;left:50%;top:4.6296%;z-index:3;position:absolute;background:;background-size:contain;"></div>
</div>
<div id="pageTwo" class="page" data-index="2" style="width:100%;height:80%;left:0%;top:0%;z-index:2;position:absolute;background-color:rgb(238, 238, 238);">
  <div id="weather" placeholder="true" style="width:90%;height:70%;left:5%;top:4.6296%;z-index:0;position:absolute;background:;background-size:contain;"></div>
</div>
```

It’s also important to uncheck the *Visible* setting of the *weather* Placeholder (i.e. any Placeholders that should not be visible when the Presentation starts). By doing so, the Placeholder will automatically be hidden, and none of the Gadgets in its Playlist will start to play when the Presentation is first loaded.

To enable navigation between different pages, we have placed a couple of links inside a footer. The `onclick` events of each link call the `showPage` function, which takes a single parameter and uses it to show the page that has that parameter as the value of its `data-index` attribute.

Here’s what the footer HTML looks like:

```
<div id="footer" placeholder="true" style="width:100%;height:20%;left:0%;top:80%;z-index:1;position:absolute;background:rgb(217, 234, 211);background-size:contain;">
  <div><a id="homeLink" href="#" onclick="showPage('1');">Page 1</a></div>
  <div><a id="videoLink" href="#" onclick="showPage('2');">Page 2</a></div>
</div>
```

## Controlling Gadget Playback
It makes sense to pause Gadgets on pages that are not currently visible, and start them again when they are. I’m not going to go into this in detail, as it has already been documented [here]({{site.absoluteurl}}developer/presentations/multi-page/widget-ids) and [here]({{site.absoluteurl}}developer/presentations/multi-page/pause-play). You can also review the code in the demo Presentation to see a real-world example.

## Moving Between Pages

### Showing the Page
Next, let’s write the `showPage` function, which will display the appropriate page of the Presentation when one of the links is clicked. We’ll start by defining a variable to hold the index of the previous page that was shown:

```
var previousIndex = "-1";
```

Next, we need to find the page element with a `data-index` value that is equal to the parameter that has been passed in. We can do that using a jQuery selector:

```
var $page = $("div[data-index='" + index + "']");
```

Now, let’s hide all pages. Pages are easily identified using the `page` CSS class we assigned to them earlier:

```
// Hide all pages.
$(".page").each(function() {
  $(this).hide();
});
```

Then we need to show the page that we actually want to be visible:

```
// Show the page we want.
if ($page != null) {
  $page.show();
}
```

Finally, we add some code for starting playback of all Gadgets on the current page and pausing playback of all Gadgets on the previous page (again, please refer to our [existing documentation](({{site.absoluteurl}}developer/presentations/multi-page/multi-page-presentations)) for further details):

```
// Pause all Gadgets on the previous page.
if (previousIndex != "-1") {
  pause(previousIndex);
}

// Play all Gadgets on the current page.
play(index);

previousIndex = index;
```

### Showing the Placeholders and Gadgets
When a Gadget begins to play, the `playCommand` event will fire. This event passes two parameters to its handler – an event object and the Gadget ID. We can listen for this event by attaching an event handler, and then immediately get a reference to the Gadget’s container when it is called:

```
$(document).bind("playCommand", function(e, id) {
  var $gadget = $("#" + id);
  // Do more stuff here.
});
```

Next, we need to show the Placeholder that this Gadget is in. Remember that it may have been hidden if the Placeholder’s *Visible* setting was not checked:

```
$gadget.parent().parent().css("visibility", "visible");
```

Finally, we have to add some code to show the Gadget itself. We include checks for each possible Placeholder transition, and assign the appropriate CSS class to the Gadget. The CSS will take care of making the Gadget visible:

```
if ($gadget.hasClass("none_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("none_hide").addClass("none_show");
}
else if ($gadget.hasClass("fade_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("fade_hide").addClass("fade_show");
}
else if ($gadget.hasClass("slide-right_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("slide-right_hide").addClass("slide-right_show");
}
else if ($gadget.hasClass("slide-left_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("slide-left_hide").addClass("slide-left_show");
}
else if ($gadget.hasClass("slide-up_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("slide-up_hide").addClass("slide-up_show");
}
else if ($gadget.hasClass("slide-down_hide")) {
  $gadget.removeClass("slide-down_hide").addClass("slide-down_show");
}
```

As the final step, we show the first page of the Presentation once the DOM has loaded:

```
$(document).ready(function() {
  // Show home page.
  showPage("1");
});
```

We now have a fully functional multi-page Presentation!
